# BiomeAnalyzer

BiomeAnalyzer is a Python-based tool designed to analyze ecological biomes, process related datasets, and generate insightful visualizations. This project facilitates microbiome research, providing tools for data handling, analysis and visualization.

## Features

	•	Data Processing: Import and process various microbiome datasets, normalization of microbiome data by the mean number of copies of the 16SrRNA
	•	Statistical Analysis: Perform data preparation, for posterior Statistical Analysis in MicrobiomeAnalyst
	•	Visualization: Statistical information visualization genereted by MicrobiomeAnalyst, and functional information generated by KEGGCharter (not implemented. however data can be used)
	

## Installation

Install the BiomeAnalyzer:

```python
pip install BiomeAnalyzer
```

## Usage

BiomeAnzlyzer can be used in the following way:

If you want to load your data and metadata file in and simply retrieve the files ready for MicrobiomeAnalyst:

```python
from biomeanalyzer.Data_IO import load_data, data_to_csv

# Loading the data and metadata

data_path = 'paste the data path here'
metadata_path = 'paste the metadata path here'

data, metadata = load_data(data_path, metadata_path)

# Transform and normalize data
data_to_csv(data, metadata, normalize=True, lab='Novogene') 
```
Future updates will not need the the lab verbose, as a template will be provided, much like it is already done with the metadata.
Normalization can also be turned off.

To make a krona plot with all the samples within it:

```python
from biomeanalyzer.Krona import make_kronas

make_kronas(data, metadata)
```

For proteome retrieval, use:

```python
from biomeanalyzer.Data_IO import load_data
from biomeanalyzer.TaxId import get_proteomes_from_df

normalized_data_path = 'paste the data path here'
metadata_path = 'paste the metadata path here'

data, metadata = load_data(data_path, metadata_path)

get_proteomes_from_df(data, "proteome_folder_name")
```
The proteomes obtained can then be used in the reCOGnizer and UPIMAPI packages for example, that then will give you the information to use in KEGGCharter

## Folder Structure

	•	data/: Contains sample datasets for analysis.
	•	database/: Scripts and files for database management.
	•	src/: Source code for data processing and visualization.
	•	dist/: Distribution files.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork the repository and submit pull requests. Please ensure that any contributions align with the project’s objectives and code standards.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for details.

